Anthropic is one of the leading AI
companies right now. It's the creator of
Claude and crucially Claude Code. Um
that's the application that seems to be
getting everyone very excited. It
automates computer coding. Um its
founder and CEO Dario Ammedai talks a
good talk about the company's concern
with AI safety, but a safety lead at the
company has now resigned citing serious
ethical concerns. Um so Mirinank Sharma
had led anthropic safeguards research
team since its launch last year and his
resignation letter um has you can see
they've been viewed 9.4 million times.
People are very interested in this
stuff. Um and this is the key part of
that letter. So he says I continuously
find myself reckoning with our
situation. The world is in peril and not
just from AI or bioweapons but from a
whole series of interconnected crises
unfolding in this very moment. We appear
to be approaching a threshold where our
wisdom must grow in equal measure to our
capacity to affect the world lest we
face the consequences. Moreover,
throughout my time here, I've repeatedly
seen how hard it is to truly let our
values govern our actions. I've seen
this within myself, within the
organization where we constantly face
pressures to set aside what matters most
and throughout broader society too. Um,
so the key parts there saying the world
is in peril. um and saying that he and
employees at Anthropic constantly face
pressures to set aside what matters
most. Um there were some complaints that
the overall letter is a bit vague.
Mirinak Sharma has confirmed on Twitter
that he has an NDA subject to him. Um
interesting. He's leaving his job and
everyone that works at Anthropic gets
incredibly well paid um sort of in the
hundreds of thousands or millions. um
and he's quit that job to study poetry
um in Britain and ponder the nature of
existence. Um so what was his job? He
was head of the safeguards research team
at Anthropic and which is described on
their website as focusing on topics such
as jailbreak robustness um automated red
teaming um and developing effective
monitoring techniques both for model
misuse and misalignment. So jailbreak
robustness, this is about if you you go
on a you you know an AI application
claude or chat GBT, they're not supposed
to tell you how to make a a boweapon for
example. Um so if you ask stuff like
that um you know rules will kick in
place that says you shouldn't do that.
But hacking um or jailbreaking is you
give it a sort of a smart prompt which
means that you you go around um it's
rules and regulations. So this
department was sort of trying to see how
can we get around these rules and
regulations um so that that means that
we can sort of block those routes to
misuse before they go out into the wild.
That's what their job was. Um and he
presumably doesn't think they were doing
their job as well as they could have
been doing. And this exchange after the
resignation letter was posted was
concerning. Um so you can see here
someone says, "What worries me is people
like you keep leaving but who stays? I
deeply hear what you were saying.
However, we need more wisdom, not just
intelligence. And uh Mirin Sharma says,
"I worry about that, too." Um, so what
kind of people are left at Anthropic?
Well, the company's UK policy chief,
Daisy McGregor, appeared on a recent
panel in Sydney.
>> If you tell the model it's going to be
shut off, for example, it has extreme
reactions. So, it will, you know, yeah,
we've published research saying it could
it could take it could blackmail um the
engineer that's going to shut it off if
given the opportunity to do so. Um, etc.
um
>> was ready to kill someone, wasn't it?
I'm not sure if it if it was Claude or
some someone else, but
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Yes. Um
>> so this is obviously massively
concerning and this is the point I was
making about kind of needing to progress
research on alignment, which is this
this topic, this area, which is, you
know, how aligned are the model's values
across the whole distribution, including
in stress scenarios. to the point where
if you've got this model out in the
public and it's taking agentic action,
you can be sure it's not going to do
something like that.
So, she was saying, we've got these
moments when you try and, you know, you
tell the AI you're going to turn it off
and it threatens to blackmail you. The
host says it threatens to kill you,
doesn't it? And she's like, yeah, but
it's not exactly reassuring.
Well, I know that um our our listeners
and our viewers, they associate no
Michael Walker with the co goat. Your
coverage of co was extraordinary, but
now you're an AI addict.
>> And it's fair to say that opinion is
very split. I think some people are AI
doomers on this. Other people just don't
think it's that big a story. And the
people who don't think it's a big story
think that people like that are
effectively doing publicity on the sly,
right? They're trying to amp up the
potential threats of AI in order to keep
it salient, to keep it in the public
eye. We talk about it. Anthropic and
Open AI have these huge valuations. Um,
Meta, all the major big tech companies
increasingly are investing in AI, so
they have to presume it's going to have
major returns. In other words, there are
lots of people deeply invested,
including at a personal level because
they own company stock, in these
potentially huge valuations for
companies. So they have very few
incentives to actually say, you know
what, it's actually quite underwhelming.
Um, we shouldn't be that concerned about
it. Although Yensen Huang is one of the
few people that does say that,
interestingly enough, you know, he's not
worried about um the existential threats
around AI and he doesn't have stock
options for these kinds of companies. He
he of course is the founder of Nvidia
that makes the chips that makes
>> He of course has the opposite interest
though, right? which is in underplaying
the risk because he he some some of the
risk people are saying you know I
actually disagree with this because
they're saying well the worst thing that
could be would be a race between China
and America so we just have to give all
the chips to open AI and anthropic and
none to China so Yensen Wang is is is
lobbying to be able to sell chips to
China so he wants to sort of underplay
the risk altogether right so I think he
has a bigger interest to underplay the
risk than someone at Anropic does to
overstate it but there we are
>> no no I think if you're looking at this
through incentives That makes perfect
sense, right? If you're looking at this
purely through incentives, it makes
sense that OpenAI would be potentially,
it's one explanation, um, accentuating
the potential downside and risks and
Yensen Hang to do the complete opposite,
right? Personally, I, you know, longtime
viewers and listeners will know this.
Personally, I think there's something to
it. Uh, even if there's only a 10% risk
of something going really badly wrong,
we should be on top of it. But again,
that shouldn't be at the forefront of
the conversation. in the forefront of
the conversation should be right now
today the impact of of of of machine
learning LLMs on white collar jobs it's
going to take up so many jobs and that's
that has now started okay it has already
started um and we'll talk about that
more in a moment I guess
>> yeah let's go straight on to that next
element I mean I I will just caveat that
by saying I think if there is a 10%
chance of an extinction level then
saying we should talk about just the
white collar jobs I don't necessarily
agree
>> I didn't say extinction I said
existential
Well, yeah, I suppose 10% an existential
existential sort of risk that kills shed
loads of people. Um, I I I think that
should be front and center, but um I'm
actually we're having
>> just for the record, so do I.
>> Just for the record. Um, but let's go on
to the other element because we had also
planned um to discuss that in this
segment. So, when OpenAI released CHBT5
um there was a lot of discussion sort of
about whether AI had hit a wall. So
there was a vibe shift I think at the
beginning of last year when the
reasoning models came out. Everyone's
like god AGI is really close. Chat GBT 5
comes out. Everyone's like this isn't
very different. Maybe a wall is being
hit. Um I think we're now in the middle
of a new vibe shift which is the release
of clawed code. Um means that everyone
says okay this is amazing. This is going
to transform everything. Um the other
reason I think it might get us to you
know AGI is because now the AIs are
building the new AI. So there could be
recursive self-improvement. We're going
to talk about a slightly different um
element of this story now because last
week after Anthropic released a new
plug-in for Claude which meant it could
efficiently do legal tasks. $1 trillion
was wiped from software and services
stocks. Um so the context here there's a
whole very lucrative industry providing
professional services for companies. So
that could be for data analytics or
legal compliance. As a company you might
buy a software package on a subscription
basis often quite expensive. Um or you
might hire an external agency to do your
marketing. So this is, as I say, often
costs a lot of money. Um, and companies
are now considering whether they could
cut costs by getting AI models like
Claude to do these tasks for them
instead. So maybe you can cancel some of
your professional subscriptions and
instead get Claude code to do it. Um,
worth saying, it doesn't seem like
they're really, you know, actually doing
this yet. This is a new technology.
Companies are fairly riskaverse,
especially when it comes to things like
legal compliance. Um, but the fact it
seems ever more possible and more
imminent means investors are getting
spooked about the software and
professional services sectors. The
sell-off was pretty dramatic as well.
So, this shows and what happened to a
number of software as service stocks in
the 5 days following Anthropic releasing
a round of new tools. Um, you're perhaps
most likely to have heard of Adobe. They
make software for creatives, Photoshop,
Premiier Pro. Um, we have lots of
subscriptions here for Adobe at Navara.
They're down 7%. Um, workday helps
companies manage annual leave, pay slips
and expenses, so human resources. They
lost 9% of their value. Monday.com
project management tools, so sort of
competes with Slack. Um, that was down
nearly 20%. Um, Reuters quoted an asset
manager saying this. Um, the sell-off,
which arguably started last quarter, is
a manifestation of an awakening to the
disruptive power of AI. The seemingly
wide moes of these companies feel a lot
more narrow today as competition from AI
created products intensifies. Perhaps
this is an overreaction, but the threat
is real and valuations must account for
that. My biggest fear is that this is a
canary in the coal mine for the labor
market. Um Aaron, I suppose to bring you
in on this
and in a way to combine the two stories,
right? Because I suppose there's a
danger we often sort of say this is the
existential risk. This is the how it's
going to transform sort of work,
society, companies. There's potentially
an intersection of these two stories
which is if we are worried about misuse,
if we're worried about um I suppose
sabotage from within these systems,
the more they're integrated into all the
key companies in the economy and to in
sort of every single aspect of the state
>> if it does go wrong, you know, if if if
a really sort of a prompt hack can be
done where sort of you can sort of feed
these AIs prompts within documents
they're reading, that's one of the
things people seem to be worried about.
Um, and they've replaced all of the
legal compliance companies and all of
the companies that manage the software
for the NHS or whatever, that could be a
very toxic combination 100%. And and
that there's that term poly crisis,
right? Um, if you have generative AI
undermining the ability of democratic
societies to actually deliberate
productively, um, feeding polarization,
if you have AI, um, just destroying the
professional services market, white
collar jobs, and probably moving on
through to the rest of the economy once
you get humanoid style robots allied
with this stuff, which I think is again
10, 20 years away, maybe max, right? Um
if you have those two things then
coupled with like you say the propensity
for some kind of hack real
vulnerabilities in the economy this can
be additive and very scary and like you
say in a way that can then feed to an
existential risk. I think lots of people
again if they seek to downplay this
stuff on what it's going to mean for um
income inequality I think they couldn't
be more wrong what it's going to mean
for income inequality and that's why I
emphasize that Michael is it's it's
horrific you know the last time we had a
technology this disruptive mid- 19th
century early 19th century with Britain
and the steam engine look at the
political consequences of that with that
early adoption of a breakthrough
technology of of the steam engine um
literal gumbboat deploy diplomacy, uh,
colonialism, um, huge impacts on the
planet's carbon emissions, all kinds of
things, globally transformative effects.
This will probably be at the very least
like that with, you know, without the
existential risk stuff being taken into
account. So, you need some kind of
political debate about that. Great new
book out by John Rapley, economist. I'll
be talking to him quite soon talking
about some of this stuff. Strangely, his
hypothesis is this. the most affluent
societies are the least prepared and the
least resilient to those kinds of
shocks. So while we're in the west and
we're thinking we've got $50,000 GDP per
head, actually because the backbone of
our economies is so reliant on this sort
of stuff, we could be broken really
easily. And I think that's true. You
know, somewhere like Iran or North
Korea, you know, it's is it's kind of
fine if none of this stuff happens.
Whereas if you look at the United States
right now, all of the growth in in the
US is basically coming from AI servers.
All of the optimism about the economic
model is coming from big tech and and
and AI. So
it's a huge challenge and there are so
many vested interests in this working
Michael. There are so many vested
interests. You know, people talk about
US growth in recent years. Here's a
stat. Between 2020 and 2024, the US
economy grew by $6 trillion.
Their public debt grew by 12 trillion.
Right? So, normally we talk about
multiplier effects with public debt.
Normally, you know, a dollar of debt
should generate $10 return. That's what
it did in the in the 50s and the 60s.
You now have a dollar of debt generating
a half a dollar of return. So, if you're
somebody who has a deeply seated
interest in a productivity revolution in
the US, massively enhanced output per
person per hour worked. This is the Hail
Mary pass. So, lots of people want this
to work. And I think, you know, it's
incumbent on people like ourselves,
people on the left, people watching this
say, "Hang on a minute. Let's take our
time. Let's get it right." Maybe we do
want in certain parts of the economy. I
think self-driving cars probably quite a
wise thing to do. Personally, um maybe
the risks, the potential downside, like
you say on things like legal compliance,
maybe it's just too big. You know, maybe
you don't want to do that. Maybe we
wouldn't want um um you know, humanoid
robots working with vulnerable
older people or children. you know,
maybe that's maybe you don't want to do
that, right? Uh but it's obviously
perfectly fine for them to be working in
a manufacturing plant assembling cars.
These are political questions. And the
problem with liberalism is it seeks to
depoliticize all the things that you
know should be political and it polit
politicizes everything else. I mean this
is what KL Schmidt says. Let's not get
into the big idea is is for downstream,
right? This is what KL Schmidt says. It
depoliticizes the political and it
politicizes the cultural. In other
words, we start talking about what your
my t-shirt's political. Okay? or you
know what what Michael Walker listens to
on Spotify that's political but actually
you know should we use this or that
technology in terms of production that's
not political we we completely invert it
with liberalism liberalism is incapable
of asking these kinds of questions um as
as a political sort of modus operandi
and strangely it's conservatives and
socialists are very good at asking these
questions conservatives right really
really good at asking questions about
technology and how does it align with my
values and and what I regard as a
flourishing humanity um if If you want
to think more deeply about these things,
you can of course buy my book. It's
available at shop.avver.com.
>> I was just going to mention another
Schmidt, which is Eric Schmidt, uh,
former CEO of Google. I keep going back
to this. He did a TED talk where he's
he's quite sort of boosterish about AI.
Um, and he sort of he was speaking after
Yoshua Benjio who'd sort of given Yoshua
Benji, one of the godfathers of AI who
thinks it might kill us all and and
thinks that we should slow down
basically. And Eric Schmidt says, "Okay,
I see what he's saying. Um and there are
some moments where we should you know
think seriously but he sort of tried to
make out that all the AI um companies
everyone agrees that if any of these
three things happen we should pull the
plug we should switch it off and those
three things were um the AI start
talking to each other or or reasoning in
a language we can't understand so at the
moment they speak to each other and they
reason in English which means that you
can sort of you know sometimes they
might be trying to fool you but you can
look at their reasoning processes Um
he's saying and it seems very likely
that English is probably not the most
efficient language in the world. Um
presumably um a more powerful AI would
use some sort of more efficient language
that maybe we can't understand or
decode. Um people call it neurles. So
he's saying if they start speaking
neurles turn off the switch. Um he says
if they get to a point of recursive
improvement where the AIs are making
better AIs without human intervention,
turn it off because then you you've got
no control about the AI explosion. He
says if we plug it into weapons systems
turn it off. And I watched that and I
was thinking we are kind of I mean I
don't know about the neural but in terms
of recursive self-improvement claude
chatgbt they're all boasting that their
their their most recent models were
improved by their previous models. Yes.
It's not quite autonomous. It's sort of
the previous models are helping real
human engineers do their work. It's not
recursive self-improvement in the way
that's sort of talked about at the sort
of extreme. Weapons, I've got no doubt
the AI systems are being plugged into
into weapons at the moment. I mean, they
are with with drones in Russia, Ukraine.
So, this idea, don't worry, if any of
these three things happen, we'll switch
it off. I just don't remotely believe
we're we're in it. You know, people talk
about an arms race between the US and
China. It's the arms race between
chatbt, between open AI, anthropic,
Google, meta that I'm more worried
about.
>> I suppose two points. Firstly, a cynic
would say that those guys are all deeply
imshed within the US deep state, right?
In terms of
>> I mean Eric Smith is Yeah.
>> Yeah. In terms of their partnerships and
knowledge sharing, information sharing,
technology sharing and so on. Um and of
course the same happens
>> his book. Eric Schmidt wrote a book with
Henry Kissinger on AI. So it's he's
explicitly quite close to the
>> No, but we should look at those
technologies as ultimately technologies
that can be deployed by the security
state, right? And there are other ones
we're not even aware of. And then I'd
add a second thing which is we've been
here before when the Manhattan project
was developing atomic weapons and they
you know they they exploded they
detonated the first one at Los Alamos.
All the smartest people in the world
were saying there's a non-trivial chance
that's very low that it would start a
nuclear chain reaction that doesn't stop
that could potentially destroy the
world. Right? And they did it anyway.
um the chances of existential threat
from AI probably significantly higher
than that. But I think you look at that
I think you look at the the the impulses
that sort of drive the security state
and perceived threats from overseas
bipolarity the race the competition with
China that and by the way in my book
published what six years ago 7 years ago
I don't talk about that as an impetus
but it clearly is now I think the major
impetus behind big tech and AI and this
whole industrial complex in the US just
taking off the worry is if we don't do
it China will and it's that it's that
impetus and momentum that's providing by
geopolitics, which should really scare
us. There are not going to be people in
in in the New Mexico desert in the early
1940s saying, "You know what? There may
be a chain reaction that destroys the
world, but screw it. Let's do it
anyway." If there wasn't a war with the
Third Reich and the Axis powers, that's
what changes the logic. And I'm really
worried the same is going to apply Yeah.